So my journey into tech,
I used to be an architect and
then I was a software engineer.
I work at Netflix now and
I do courses on the side.
>> Male Speaker 1: What got you
into tech from architecture?
>> Francesca Sadikin: Yes,
why did I leave architecture?
So, I didn't realize how
little money architects made.
And so when I was trying to
live in LA on $33,000 a year,
I was like,
this is very hard to live here.
And so my husband, at the time,
was like, if you want money,
software engineering is a great
opportunity for that, even if you hate it.
You'll make a lot more than
what you're making now.
And so I was like, well, let me try it.
And thankfully, I did because I always
thought that architecture was my passion.
I realized I just liked architecture,
I actually have a passion for coding.
It is so much more funner, yes.
So for money initially, but
now it's passion, [LAUGH].
>> Male Speaker 2: Can you tell
me more about that passion?
What first made you realize
that you'd found it?
>> Francesca Sadikin: So, I was learning
through FreeCodeCamp, where you start out
with HTML, CSS, JavaScript, so a bunch of
the front end web stuff, design stuff.
And that was the most fun thing, was that
as an architect, you can design something,
five years later it'll be done and
you'll realize that that was a bad design.
[LAUGH] But in software,
you build it and it's instantaneous.
You have such a quick feedback loop to,
one, improve your design and
now with the ability to think of
anything I want and then build it.
I was like, my god, so powerful.
I can build anything I want and
that feeling is exactly why I like it,
it's the freedom.
>> Female Speaker 1: What was like
the moment when you realized, okay,
I can do this.
And how did that feel?
>> Francesca Sadikin: The day I decided to
quit my job as an architect was when I was
just like, I actually really,
really enjoy it.
And so
I didn't have any particular skills.
But the fact that I just loved coding and
did all my free code exercise
in all times of the day,
I think that was enough an indicator to
me that I'm like, forget architecture.
Software is where it's at now.
>> Male Speaker 1: How did you get
exposure into the tech community
being self-taught?
>> Francesca Sadikin: I
joined a lot of meetups and
joined online communities like Chingu.
It's a free service that's somewhat
chaotic, but it [LAUGH] sorts
students all over the world into groups
of four to build projects in eight weeks.
And so, that was my community for
a long time.
>> Male Speaker 2: Can you
elaborate on what made it chaotic?
>> Francesca Sadikin: Because it's free,
a lot of people join, but
they don't get to the finish line.
And so you might be left with
the whole project to build an eight
weeks by yourself.
[LAUGH] I found that happening a lot,
but it was still very valuable.
You said you got into tech
through starting on FreeCodeCamp.
>> Mark: What other resources or
things did you do to continue to learn?
>> Francesca Sadikin: Yes,
so I did FreeCodeCamp.
That's where I found in
the forums about Chingu.
And I spent a few iterations
building voyages.
That's what they're called in Chingu, to
the point where the admin team was like,
you're around all the time.
Maybe you wanna join the admin team.
And so that educational platform I was
talking about before, that's Chingu.
And so I was brought on to build for
all of their students.
And so that nine month time frame, which
unfortunately had no users at the end,
but I learned a lot [LAUGH]
because these are real projects.
They weren't tutorials, but
they were real things, it was very custom.
And so spending that nine months
building with the team helped
me gather tons of experience and
really hone my skills.
Even though it was not great quality code,
it looked great and it worked.
>> Male Speaker 2: How did you feel
when you were left holding the bag?
So to speak,
when people would fall away and
you are the one left
to finish the project.
How did that make you feel?
>> Francesca Sadikin: So definitely
a little frustrated that I was just like,
it's okay.
This is important and
it's gonna look great on my portfolio, so
I'm gonna finish this.
I'm gonna learn a lot.
>> Male Speaker 2: Sure, and then when
you spent the nine months building that
feature and nobody used it.
How did you feel at that point?
>> Francesca Sadikin: Definitely
embarrassed, where I was like,
I'm a goddamn designer.
I should have known this,
[LAUGH] how can I not have seen this?
And just so, it's like I learned a lesson.
That was a very painful lesson that
I will always remember now, right?
I'm like, yeah, forgot the users,
that's important.
Go ahead.
>> Mark: How did you feel when you applied
for Netflix and eventually got the job?
What was that process like?
>> Francesca Sadikin: So
I didn't apply for the job,
their recruiter actually found me.
And I was very surprised because I
had heard that Netflix only hires
extremely experienced engineers.
And so, I wasn't expecting anything
because I was very early on in my career.
And so they reached out for interviews.
I was like, cool, probably not gonna get
it, just gonna try it anyways though and
I'm sure I'll learn something.
And I just got through every
single interview thinking,
probably not gonna get that.
It's probably wasn't great.
And then I just kept getting the next
interview I did that all the way up to
the call with HR when they
actually gave me the offer.
I was still like,
probably not gonna get it.
And yeah, just shocked that, I was,
well, [LAUGH] I actually got the job.
Just very surprising.
But I was like, wow, I'm really glad
that I constantly update my LinkedIn,
cuz that's how they found me
[LAUGH] was through LinkedIn.
Yes, I feel like there is, cuz I give
this introduction a lot for myself.
I know the details I usually [LAUGH] tell,
but
there's a huge chunk right there
in the middle about something.
[LAUGH] That something is it's like,
go ahead.
>> Male Speaker 1: Do you think
there is an advantage to you being
aloof during that process?
>> Francesca Sadikin: Doing aloof, I think
it was more like it's not aloof, but
just setting my expectations low.
That's just how we were raised.
We're like, try very hard, but
expect nothing, [LAUGH] just so
that we don't feel the bitter
sense of disappointment.
Yes, so there's, yep, go ahead, Mark.
>> Mark: This one online said,
I find myself alone building projects.
I don't mind it, but is there
a community where I should join and
build projects collaboratively?
>> Francesca Sadikin: Yeah, so Chingu
is one, again, remember, it is chaotic.
[LAUGH] But, the other ones,
I think they're still around.
It's been a few years, but there's this
organization called Code for America.
They have numerous chapters
across the country, and so
at least the way it is in LA.
It's some sort of like regular
meetup where representatives from
the local government will come with
an actual real request for a project.
And then these groups of engineers,
designers, and project managers will
actually form together to solve
that problem with that stakeholder.
And so, you're actually working in a real
team, you're working on a real project,
and you are gaining tons of
experience this way as well.
>> Male Speaker 2: And
hopefully helping your [CROSSTALK]
>> Francesca Sadikin: And you're helping,
[LAUGH] yeah, you're helping society.
So does anyone want to ask me about
how I got my [LAUGH] first job?
What that was like?
>> Male Speaker 1: How did you
get your [LAUGH] first job?
>> Francesca Sadikin: [LAUGH] Yes.
Yeah, so that's actually, like,
that's actually the bulk of what I
remember in my career is because it was so
hard.
[LAUGH] I spent a year and
nine months trying to get a job, and
during that time period I was doing
everything that was recommended.
I was working on my skills,
I built portfolios,
I went to the hackathons,
I went to the networking events.
I did my resume a bajillion times and
everyone I was speaking with was like,
I'm not sure why you don't get any
calls back, because it seems fine.
But I literally got nothing,
not even a rejection email for
a year and nine months.
And if you ask me how I felt about it,
[LAUGH] I've never
been someone who was
depressed before in my life.
But I think during that time period
was the closest I felt depressed and
despair, because it's like
that feeling where you try so
hard, but
you have no results from it, right?
See, I tear up just a little bit thinking
about it because it was such a hard time.
And so, yeah, and then just right
as I was about [LAUGH] to quit,
I was just like, I'm a designer.
Why am I trying to be [LAUGH] an engineer?
That was when that first interview
request came in from 8 Flight.
And so this is my takeaway for a lot
of engineers when they're starting off,
is that, how hard it took for
you to get your first job doesn't
reflect the potential you
have as an engineer, right?
Cuz it's very hard and
you just need that one opportunity.
And sometimes it just takes time, right?
And so, I think the goal, especially for
folks getting their first job,
is trying to figure out how to
give yourself enough of that time.
And maybe cushion your finances a little
bit so you can wait that amount of time
while you're still preparing for
the opportunity.
>> Francesca Sadikin: There's a bulk
of it right there, right [LAUGH]?
>> Male Speaker 2: I was waiting for
the word tough.
>> Francesca Sadikin: Yes, tough
[LAUGH] despair is how I felt, [LAUGH].
Yes.
>> Female Speaker 2: If I may ask,
what help you keep the confidence and
the morale up during that time.
And also,
were you working on your skills at
the same time while looking [CROSSTALK].
>> Francesca Sadikin: Yeah definitely,
I was coding every day you
know with Chingu and stuff.
Right as I got that job, that's when I
was like, goodbye, Chingu, thank you.
But how to keep morale up.
I think part of it that helped me from
getting too upset was because I had
this project with Chingu where
there were other people,.
I was really learning a lot and
I get felt like I was a part of a team.
We were a team, and
we were building towards something.
And so, having that to focus
on helped me not feel so bad.
[LAUGH] Because I think when
you don't have that, and
you're just applying every day and
then getting that constant objection.
You don't feel the little wins and
it's easy to get very,
very depressed and
angry about your situation.
So I think trying to find situations where
you can work in groups towards a common
goal, and that's still benefiting
your skills, I think that will help.
>> Mark: How difficult was your
first year as a software developer,
once you started your first role?
>> Francesca Sadikin: Once I started my
role, so after the apprenticeship or?
>> Mark: Your first year
as a software developer.
>> Francesca Sadikin: So
the first year as a professional,
paid [LAUGH] software developer was at
8 Flight, where the first six months
was actually an apprenticeship, and
so they paid us to learn actually.
And I mean tons of imposter syndrome,
even now tons of imposter syndrome,
I am constantly working with amazing
engineers, and I'm always like,
I don't know if I should be here.
I'm not sure if I'm as as good as
you guys, but yeah, just feeling,
I'm like,
I can't lose this opportunity, [LAUGH].
I Just working really, really hard, and
it was actually like, I just worked so
hard, and I didn't talk to anybody
as that actually was a mistake too.
That I worked so hard always.
I never had lunch with anyone,
even though everyone always invited me.
Never did any of that and
just kept my head down.
And I guess it was okay, but
I think I could have done more if I had
actually just branched out a little bit.
But yeah, the first year, learned a lot,
but also massive imposter syndrome,
just afraid that I was gonna
get fired the entire time.
>> Male Speaker 2: Do you feel heard and
understood?
>> Francesca Sadikin: I do.
Yeah, when people feel deeper emotions,
when they share it.
I think you can't help but
feel connections when people don't
reject you for that emotion, right?
They're like, yeah, I relate.
And I'm like, yeah, same, right?
Was it helpful to do aversion
with me before we go?
>> Male Speaker 2: Yeah, I mean, when your
eyes welled up a little bit, so did mine,
so, cuz I relate to that emotion.
>> Francesca Sadikin: Yeah, yes.
And that's where connection is formed
is to feel that common experience with
common feelings together.